---
layout: post
title:  "Setup"
categories: jekyll update
---

# Basic set up

* To assemble and set up the Raspberry Pi, follow the instructions for the Poppy Ergo Jr. from https://docs.poppy-project.org/en/. Be sure to install the 2.0 image file for the Ergo Jr. (https://github.com/poppy-project/poppy-ergo-jr/releases/tag/2.0.0)

* You may not be able to reach the poppy control panel using poppy.local. You can instead, access the control panel by entering the IP address of the robot directly into the address bar of your preferred web browser.

# Enabling bash commands

* From the control panel, goto Jupyter page. From the Jupyter page, click **New** -> **Terminal**.

* In the terminal, enter the following command:
  ```bash
  export PATH=$PATH:/bin:/usr/bin
  ```
* Now you should be able to use some common commands like **sudo**, **git**, etc.

# Getting the modified server file

* To enable some of the custom features provided by the extension, we need to replace the server file located at
  ```
  ~/dev/server/snap.py
  ```

* Enter the following command in the terminal to clone the git repository that contains the modified **snap.py** file.
  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/eesh/HammingGeneratorServer.git
  ```

# Replacing the server file with the modified server file

* Copy the *snap.py* file in the HammingGeneratorServer folder into the server folder. To do this, enter the following command:
  ```bash
  mv HammingGeneratorServer/snap.py ~/dev/server/
  ```

# Reboot the robot

* For the new server features to be available, restart the robot either by unplugging and replugging the Ergo Jr. power cord or by going to the control panel and clicking selecting reboot.

<br>

# Generating new Markers

* To generate new markers, go to the terminal, and enter the following command:
  ```bash
  python HammingGeneratorServer/HammingGeneratorServer.py
  ```

* Now go to http://ipaddress:5000/generator to generate Markers.
